Start with DataFrames overview (#7)
JuliaDataScience/JuliaDataScience: contents/dataframes.md

# DataFrames.jl {#sec:dataframes}

> Most data is formatted as a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data comes mostly in a tabular format.
```

> By a table, we mean that the data consists of rows and columns, and the columns are usually of the same data type, whereas rows have different types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By tabular, we mean that the data consists of a table containing rows and columns.
The columns are usually of the same data type, whereas rows have different types.
```

> The rows, in practise, denote measurements and columns denote variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rows, in practice, denote observations and columns denote variables.
```

> For example, we can have a table of tv shows, which country it was produced, and our own rating for the shows, see @tbl:tv_shows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we can have a table of TV shows, containing which country it was produced, and its rating see @tbl:tv_shows.
```

```{=comment}
Using a different example from the rest in the chapter to make the text a bit more interesting.
We could even ask the reader to answer the queries described below as exercises.
```

```jl
tv_shows = DataFrame(
    name=["Game of Thrones", "The Crown", "Friends", "..."],

>     country=["America", "England", "America", "..."],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    country=["United States", "England", "United States", "..."],
```
America is a whole continent (which I currently live in South America)

    rating=[8.2, 7.3, 7.8, "..."])
Options(tv_shows; label="tv_shows")
```

Here, the dots mean that this could be a very long table and we only show a few rows.

> While doing research, questions on this data start to arise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While analyzing data, we always have interesting questions about the data.
```

For large tables, computers would be able to answer these kinds of questions much quicker than you could do it by hand.
Examples of, so called _queries_, for this data could be:

> - Which show did I give the highest rating?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Which TV show have the highest rating?
```

> - Which shows are made in America?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Which TV shows were produced in the United States?
```

America is a whole continent (which I currently live in South America)

> - Which shows where in the same country?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Which TV shows were produced in the same country?
```
The question was ambiguous. Was this you intended to write? Sorry if I misunderstood.

> But, as a researcher, the real science often starts with having multiple tables or data sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, as a researcher, real science often starts with having multiple tables or data sources.
```
I think that we can drop pronoun "the" here

> For example, if we also have the table containing the ratings given by someone else (@tbl:ratings),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if we also have a table containing someone else's ratings (@tbl:ratings),
```

```jl
ratings = DataFrame(
    name=["Game of Thrones", "Friends", "..."],
    rating=[7, 6.4, "..."])
Options(ratings; label="ratings")
```

> Now, questions we could ask ourselves could be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, questions that we could ask ourselves could be:
```

> - What is the average rating that Game of Thrones received?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What is Game of Thrones' average rating?
```

- Who gave the highest rating for Friends?

> - What shows are rated by you but not by the other person?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What TV shows were rated by you but not by the other person?
```

> In the rest of this chapter, we will show you how you can easily answer these questions in Julia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the rest of this section, we will show you how you can easily answer these questions in Julia.
```
Aren't we only using sections now?

To do so, we first show, in @sec:why_dataframes, why we need a Julia package called DataFrames.jl.
Next, we answer queries on single tables in @sec:select_filter.

> After this, we unfortunately have to discuss how to handle missing data in @sec:missing_data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this, we have to discuss how to handle missing data in @sec:missing_data, which unfortunately happens a lot. 
```

Then, we are ready to answer queries on multiple tables in @sec:join.

> Finally, we discuss how to aggregate rows for things like taking the mean in @sec:groupby.

Reviewer: We need something here to show that `groupby` is not only aggregating rows, but summarizing variables for different groups.

## Why DataFrames.jl? {#sec:why_dataframes}

```{=comment}
Maybe, add a comparison with Excel to see where Julia is better.

> In summary, because it is much easier to structure and reproduce the logic.

Reviewer: I like this ideal #deleteexcel!

```

> For example, we could have a table of grades like the one in @tbl:grades_for_2020.

Reviewer: There is a lot of "For example" already, maybe we should change the tone?

```jl
JDS.grades_for_2020()
```

Here, the column name has type `string`, age has type `integer`, and grade has type `float`.

So far, this book has only handled Julia's basics.
These basics are great for many things, but not for tables.
To show that we need more, lets try to store the tabular data in arrays:

```jl
@sc(JDS.grades_array)
```

Now, the data is stored in, so called, column-major, which is cumbersome when we want to get data from a row:

```jl
@sco(JDS.second_row)
```

Or, if you want to have the grade for Alice, you first need to figure out in what row Alice is,

```jl
@sco(JDS.row_alice)
```

and, then, we can get the value

```jl
@sco(JDS.value_alice)
```

> These kinds of problems are what is solved by DataFrames, which we can load with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataFrames.jl can easily solve these kinds of issues.
You can start by loading DataFrames.jl:
```

```
using DataFrames
```
With DataFrames.jl, we can define

```jl
sco("""
name = ["Sally", "Bob", "Alice", "Hank"]
grade_2020 = [1, 5, 8.5, 4]
df = DataFrame(; name, grade_2020)
without_caption_label(df) # hide
""")

> 

Reviewer: We can remove this empty line?

> """)
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
""")
```
```

> which gives us a variable `df` containing our table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which gives us a variable `df` containing our data in a table format.
```
What about this?
